# PyBer_Analysis

Note to TA: There is a problem with my load from JupyterNotebook to github where some of my DataFrames are not populating properly. You will see this in my Challenge file, "</td><td>", and other variations of that. There are multilpe open issues on githud regarding this and I was unable to get it resolved prior to submitting this assignment. 

This analysis was performed to provide a summary view of total rides, total drivers, total fares, average fare per ride and average fare per driver by city type. This view can allow the company to see how the rides to driver ratio looks and it is clear there are more drivers available than rides in Urban areas. To create the technical deliverables, I used Pandas for grouping the city types for the summary view and I also used it for creating the pivot table that captured the sum of fares for each city type by week. When looking at the results of the summary data, it is clear that urban cities have the highest total fares. However, they also have the highest number of drivers so the profit for these cities would need to be calculated. The multi-line graph shows the fares fluctuate the most in rural areas, but Urban areas also see a fluctuation during the month of March. This can tie to the various spring break schedules throughout the month. 

When completing this analysis, I initially ran into the challenge around setting the index to city type for the summary data frame. I was able to manipulate the code to have the graph visualized as desired. When working through the second technical deliverable, I ran into a problem once it came to resampling the data by the "date" index. I then realized that the "date" index had a datatype of object which would not work for the resample() function. After adjusting the index datatype, the fuction ran perfectly. As I moved to the graph, I was not as familiar with creating or formatting the multipleline graph with the object-oriented interface method. After trying out a few things, I was able to set ax = findal_df.plot() for it to populate correctly. I was then able to format, using new methods of adding legend names and removing the x-axis label. 

To address any disparities, I recommend looking at total profits for each city type. That can help guide the decision on if more drivers are needed in rural areas or if less drivers are needed in urban areas. The additional analyses I recommend are profit analysis, number of drivers that were available at the time of a ride request, and the number of rides requested per hour vs drivers available per hour. All of these analyses will require different datasets where I would need to use pandas to disect and create DataFrames. As well as matplotlib to visualize the data. 
